docs: bootloader: Add a user guide (#3607)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/ug_bootloader_adding.rst

.. _ug_bootloader_adding:

Adding a bootloader chain
#########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

You can add bootloader chains to an application in the following ways:

* Permanently:

  * Using Kconfig fragments.

>   * Using ``prj.conf`` files.

Author: Good point about menuconfig. I added mention of it to the Temporary list below.

* Temporarily, for a single build command, using :ref:`one-time CMake arguments <zephyr:west-building-cmake-args>`.

Kconfig fragments and ``prj.conf`` files use the same syntax and they are the recommended method.

> You can add bootloader chains to nearly any sample in |NCS| or Zephyr for rapid testing and experimentation of their capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add bootloader chains to nearly any sample in |NCS| or Zephyr for rapid testing and experimentation.
```

Author: Fixed.

> The type of bootloader that you should add is always dependent upon application needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bootloader type is always dependent upon application needs.
```

Author: Fixed.

.. _ug_bootloader_adding_immutable:

> Adding an immutable bootloader

Author: `ug_bootloader.rst` currently defines, or at least explains, the immutable bootloader. #4033 also introduces this to the glossary.

Like other child images, :ref:`image-specific configurations <ug_multi_image_variables>` can be assigned at build time to further customize the bootloader's functionality.

To ensure that the immutable bootloader occupies as little flash memory as possible, you can also apply the :file:`prj_minimal.conf` configuration:

.. code-block:: console

   west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf5840 zephyr/samples/hello_world -- \
   -DCONFIG_SECURE_BOOT=y \
   -Db0_CONF_FILE=prj_minimal.conf

See :ref:`ug_bootloader_config` for more information about using Kconfig fragments.

.. _ug_bootloader_adding_immutable_keys:

Adding a custom signature key file
----------------------------------

To add a signature key file to this bootloader, set the :option:`CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE` option in the application's ``prj.conf`` file, in an associated Kconfig fragment, or using the command line:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Kconfig / prj.conf

      .. code-block:: console

         CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE="priv.pem"

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      .. code-block:: console

         -DCONFIG_SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE=\"priv.pem\"

      Escaped quotations avoid malformed-string warnings from Kconfig.

> This option only accepts the private key of an ECDSA key pair, as the public key will be extracted from it automatically during build time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option only accepts the private key of an ECDSA key pair, as the public key is extracted from it automatically at build time.
```

What extracts the key?

Author: Reworded, please see the latest changes.

> The file argument must be a string and specified in one of the following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file argument must be a string and is specified in one of the following ways:
```

Author: Fixed.

* The relative path to the file from the application directory.

>   * If the ``prj.conf`` file is external to the directory, the key's location will still be taken relative to the application directory, not to the configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If the ``prj.conf`` file is external to the directory, the key's location is determined relative to the application directory, not the configuration file.
```

Author: Fixed.

* The absolute path to the file.

> For example, if a directory named ``_keys`` and located in ``/home/user/ncs`` contains signing keys, then you can provide the path in the following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if a directory named ``_keys`` located in ``/home/user/ncs`` contains signing keys, you can provide the path in the following ways:
```

Author: Fixed.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Kconfig / prj.conf

      .. code-block:: console

         CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE="../../_keys/priv.pem"

      Or

      .. code-block:: console

         CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE="/home/user/ncs/_keys/priv.pem"

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      .. code-block:: console

         -DCONFIG_SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE=\"../../_keys/priv.pem\"

      Or

      .. code-block:: console

         -DCONFIG_SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE=\"/home/user/ncs/_keys/priv.pem\"

>       Or, if you set an environment variable named ``NCS`` to ``/home/user/ncs``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Or, if you set an environment variable named ``NCS`` to ``/home/user/ncs``:
```

Author: Fixed.

      .. code-block:: console

         -DCONFIG_SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE=\"$NCS/_keys/priv.pem\"

> On Unix systems, you can also symbolically link the file into the sample directory, even if git will see it as an untracked file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Unix systems, you can also symbolically link the file into the sample directory, even if Git classifies it as an untracked file.
```

Author: Fixed.

.. note::

   The public key string must be an absolute path to the location of the public key file.
   Environment variables (like ``$HOME``,``$PWD``, or ``$USER``) and the ``~`` character on Unix systems are not expanded when setting an absolute path from a ``prj.conf`` file or Kconfig fragment, but are expanded correctly in key file strings on the command line.

> You can find specific configuration options for using keys with this bootloader in :file:`nrf/subsys/bootloader/Kconfig`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find specific configuration options for keys with this bootloader in :file:`nrf/subsys/bootloader/Kconfig`.
```

Author: Fixed.

See :ref:`ug_fw_update_keys` for information on how to generate custom keys for a project.

Additionally, the |NSIB| supports the following methods for signing images with private keys:

> * :ref:`ug_fw_update_keys_python` - it is the default method, using the :option:`CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_PYTHON`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :ref:`ug_fw_update_keys_python` - The default method, using the :option:`CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_PYTHON`.
```

Author: Fixed.

> * :ref:`ug_fw_update_keys_openssl` - it uses the :option:`CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_OPENSSL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :ref:`ug_fw_update_keys_openssl` - Uses the :option:`CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_OPENSSL`.
```

Author: Fixed.

> * :ref:`Using a custom command <ug_bootloader_adding_immutable_b0_custom_signing>` - it uses the :option:`CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_CUSTOM`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :ref:`Using a custom command <ug_bootloader_adding_immutable_b0_custom_signing>` - Uses the :option:`CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_CUSTOM`.
```

Author: Fixed.

> Both Python and OpenSSL methods are automatically handled for the user, whereas using custom commands requires more configuration steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both Python and OpenSSL methods are automatically handled for the user, whereas using custom commands requires more configuration steps.
```

What handles these? 

Don't need to say 'the user' when the doc is specifically addressing the user.

Author: Reworded, please see latest changes.

Checking the public key
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can check that the bootloader image is correctly compiled with the custom signing key by comparing its auto-generated public key against a manual public key dump using OpenSSL.

> To do this you can use ``diff``, running the following command from a terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can do this with ``diff``, running the following command from a terminal:
```

Author: Fixed.

.. code-block:: console

   diff build/zephyr/nrf/subsys/bootloader/generated/public.pem <(openssl ec -in priv.pem -pubout)

> If there is no file diff output, then the private key was successfully included with the bootloader image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is no file diff output, then the private key is included with the bootloader image.
```

With or in?

Author: In. Fixed, please see latest changes.

.. _ug_bootloader_adding_immutable_b0_custom_signing:

Custom signing commands
-----------------------

If you want complete control over the key handling of a project, the |NSIB| supports the use of a custom signing command.

> Using a custom signing command, instead of calling upon a specific command and public key for signing the firmware images, removes the use of a private key from the build system.

Author: Fixed.

This is useful when the private keys are stored, managed, or otherwise processed through a *hardware security module* (`HSM`_) or in-house tool.

To use a custom signing command with this bootloader, set the following options in the application's ``prj.conf`` file, in an associated Kconfig fragment, or using the command line:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Kconfig / prj.conf

      .. code-block:: console

         CONFIG_SECURE_BOOT=y
         CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_CUSTOM=y
         CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_PUBLIC_KEY="/path/to/pub.pem"
         CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_COMMAND="my_command"

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      .. code-block:: console

         west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf5840 zephyr/samples/hello_world -- \
         -DCONFIG_SECURE_BOOT=y \
         -DCONFIG_SB_SIGNING_CUSTOM=y \
         -DCONFIG_SB_SIGNING_PUBLIC_KEY=\"/path/to/pub.pem\" \
         -DCONFIG_SB_SIGNING_COMMAND=\"my_command\"

      Escaped quotations avoid malformed-string warnings from Kconfig.

.. note::

   The public key string must be an absolute path to the location of the public key file.

>    Environment variables (like ``$HOME``,``$PWD``, or ``$USER``) and the ``~`` character on Unix systems are not expanded when setting an absolute path from a ``prj.conf`` file or Kconfig fragment, but are expanded correctly in key file strings on the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Environment variables (such as ``$HOME``,``$PWD``, or ``$USER``) and the ``~`` character on Unix systems are not expanded when setting an absolute path from a ``prj.conf`` file or Kconfig fragment, but are expanded correctly in key file strings on the command line.
```

Author: Fixed.

> See :option:`CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_COMMAND` for specifics about what a signing command must do to be usable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See :option:`CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_COMMAND` for specifics about what a usable signing command must do.
```

Author: Fixed.

> The command string can include its own arguments like a typical terminal command, with arguments sent to the command by the build system being appended to the end:

Reviewer: This is ambiguous and I'm not sure what's appended to the end.

Author: Reworded, please see latest changes.

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   my_command *[options]* *<args ...>* *<build_system_args ..>*

> Arguments sent to the command by the build system in this way are noted in :option:`CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_COMMAND`.

Reviewer: Does this happen automatically (passive) or is it something you must or can edit (active)?

Passive voice here makes it unclear what I'm actually in control of as the user.

Author: Reworded, please see latest changes.

.. note::

   Whitespace, hyphens, and other non-alphanumeric characters must be escaped appropriately when setting the string from the command line.

>    If the custom signing command uses its own options or arguments, it is recommended to define the string in a ``prj.conf`` file or Kconfig fragment to avoid tracking backslashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If the custom signing command uses its own options or arguments, we recommend defining the string in a ``prj.conf`` file or Kconfig fragment to avoid tracking backslashes.
```

Author: Fixed.

>    Like public key paths, environment variables will not be expanded when using them in a command string set from one of these files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Like public key paths, environment variables are not expanded in a command string set from one of these files.
```

Author: Fixed.

.. _ug_bootloader_adding_immutable_mcuboot:

> Adding MCUboot as an immutable bootloader

Reviewer: Stopping here for today; will come back to this tomorrow.

You can set the option in :file:`bootloader/mcuboot/boot/zephyr/prj.conf`, an associated Kconfig fragment, or using the command line:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Kconfig / prj.conf

      .. code-block:: console

         CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KEY_FILE="priv.pem"

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      .. code-block:: console

         -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KEY_FILE=\"priv.pem\"

      Escaped quotations avoid malformed-string warnings from Kconfig.

The path of the key works as :ref:`described above <ug_bootloader_adding_immutable_keys>` for |NSIB|, except the "application" directory for relative pathing is considered to be :file:`bootloader/mcuboot`.

See :ref:`ug_fw_update_keys` for information on how to generate custom keys for a project.

It is recommended to also set the associated configuration for a key type to ensure MCUboot compiles the public key into its image correctly.

.. code-block:: console

   west build -b nrf52dk_nrf52840 zephyr/samples/hello_world -- \
   -DCONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT=y \
   -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KEY_FILE=\"../../priv-ecdsa256.pem\" \
   -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_ECDSA_P256=y

.. note::

>    Sometimes the key-type option is automatically applied based upon available hardware.

Author: I decided to remove this part. It sounded too much like advertising a feature that the user shouldn't rely upon.

This section is supposed to be recommending to always specify the key file type to avoid compilation issues, and this message is clearer without this section.

   If the custom signing command uses its own options or arguments, it is recommended to define the string in a ``prj.conf`` file or Kconfig fragment to avoid tracking backslashes.
   Like public key paths, environment variables will not be expanded when using them in a command string set from one of these files.

.. _ug_bootloader_adding_immutable_mcuboot:

MCUboot
=======

To build :ref:`mcuboot:index` with a Zephyr or |NCS| sample, enable the :option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` in the application's :file:`prj.conf` file.
You can also use the command line, as follows:

.. code-block:: console

   west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52840 zephyr/samples/hello_world -- -DCONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT=y

|how_to_configure|
Like other child images, you can assign :ref:`image-specific configurations <ug_multi_image_variables>` at build time to further customize the bootloader's functionality.

.. _ug_bootloader_adding_immutable_mcuboot_keys:

Adding a custom signature key file
----------------------------------

.. FIXME: Sphinx does not find :option:`CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KEY_FILE`; how to link against non-NCS Kconfig options?

> To pass the signature key file into the MCUboot image, set its :option:`CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KEY_FILE` to the generated file.

Reviewer 2: `to the private key file` ? Generated file may sound a bit ambiguous

Reviewer 3: fixed

You can set the option in :file:`bootloader/mcuboot/boot/zephyr/prj.conf` or an associated Kconfig fragment:

.. code-block:: console

   CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KEY_FILE="priv.pem"

You can also use the command line, with escaped quotations or apostrophes to avoid malformed-string warnings from Kconfig:

.. code-block:: console

   -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KEY_FILE=\"priv.pem\"

> This option only accepts the private key of an ECDSA key pair, as the public key will be extracted from it automatically during build time.

Reviewer 2: MCUBoot can use also other signature types - e.g. RSA

Reviewer 3: @MarekPieta aside from RSA and ECDSA, are there any other signature types supported by mcuboot?

Reviewer 2: I think the ED25519 is supported too, see CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_ED25519 option of MCUBoot bootloader.

Author: My original wording of this was poor, and I didn't intend to imply that MCUboot can only use ECDSA. I have reworded this to be more general and clear. Please see latest commit.

   This will cause build errors when using an ECDSA key without enabling its associated key-type option.

You can find specific configuration options for using keys with this bootloader in :file:`bootloader/mcuboot/boot/zephyr/Kconfig`.

Checking the public key
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can extract the public key locally and compare it against MCUboot's auto-generated file to verify that it is using the custom key:

.. code-block:: console

   diff build/mcuboot/zephyr/autogen-pubkey.c <(python3 bootloader/mcuboot/scripts/imgtool.py getpub -k priv.pem)

If there is no file diff output, then the private key was successfully included with the bootloader image.

.. _ug_bootloader_adding_upgradable:

Adding an upgradable bootloader
*******************************

MCUboot is the only upgradable bootloader currently available with the |NCS|.
The following section describes how to add it to your secure bootloader chain.

.. _ug_bootloader_adding_upgradable_mcuboot:

MCUboot
=======

To use MCUboot as an upgradable bootloader, the application must include the |NSIB| as the immutable bootloader.

> To do so, add :option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` with either the build command or in the application's :file:`prj.conf` file:

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should mention both options here: `CONFIG_SECURE_BOOT` and `CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT`? CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT actually enables only MCUboot

Reviewer 3: @kyberdin

Author: @MarekPieta Thanks for suggesting this, my wording here is bad. I have modified it to be clearer about MCUboot's config being used _in addition_ to the immutable's config, as demonstrated in the example code. Since the NSIB's config option is already shown shown and explained earlier in the docs, I didn't include it again in the text here. Please see the latest commit.

The process to use specific signature keys with MCUboot used as the upgradable bootloader is the same as when it is used :ref:`as the immutable one <ug_bootloader_adding_immutable_mcuboot_keys>`.

.. note::

   Since each bootloader is built with its own signature key, using a different private key with an upgradable bootloader will not cause problems with the secure boot chain.
   You can also use the same private key for both the immutable and upgradable bootloaders, as long as the key type is supported by both of them.

.. _ug_bootloader_adding_presigned_variants:

Pre-signed variants
===================

Enable the :option:`CONFIG_BUILD_S1_VARIANT` option when building the upgradable bootloader to automatically generate :ref:`pre-signed variants <upgradable_bootloader_presigned_variants>` of the image for both slots:

.. code-block::

   west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52840 zephyr/samples/hello_world -- \
   -DCONFIG_SECURE_BOOT=y \
   -DCONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT=y \
   -DCONFIG_BUILD_S1_VARIANT=y

This is a necessary step for creating application update images for use with :ref:`ug_fw_update`.

.. _ug_bootloader_adding_testing:

Testing the boot chain
**********************

> To test the bootloader(s) and the secure boot chain, build and program them with any sample as described above.

Reviewer 4: This formatting "the bootloader(s)" is not allowed. Suggestion: `either of the bootloaders`.

Also, I would move this and the following sections (that is, Testing, Bootloader configs, and External partitions) to separate pages. As we're going for container-based structure on the top page of the bootloader section, we should be consistent. Testing is a separate procedure from Adding and the rest of information in the other two sections.

         Hash: 0xc0...71
         Firmware signature verified.
         Firmware version 1
         Setting monotonic counter (version: 1, slot: 0)

   .. tab:: MCUboot

      .. code-block::

         [00:00:00.359,039] <inf> mcuboot: Starting bootloader
         [00:00:00.365,295] <inf> mcuboot: Primary image: magic=unset, swap_type=0x1, copy_done=0x3, image_ok=0x3
         [00:00:00.375,671] <inf> mcuboot: Secondary image: magic=unset, swap_type=0x1, copy_done=0x3, image_ok=0x3
         [00:00:00.386,169] <inf> mcuboot: Boot source: none
         [00:00:00.391,815] <inf> mcuboot: Swap type: none
         [00:00:00.420,166] <inf> mcuboot: Bootloader chainload address offset: 0xc000
         [00:00:00.428,039] <inf> mcuboot: Jumping to the first image slot

When compiled with minimal configurations that disable logging output, such as ``prj_minimal.conf``, the bootloader information output can be disabled altogether or per-bootloader.
Refer to the source code directories of each bootloader to see what minimal configuration options are already available, or add them through a custom Kconfig fragment if desired.

.. _ug_bootloader_adding_fragments:

> Bootloader configurations and fragments

Reviewer 4: The title of this section suggests a reference concept section, while in fact it is a task: Assigning overlays with project configurations. I strongly suggest rephrasing the title and rewriting the contents to a task-based format.

Reviewer 3: fixed

***************************************

You can use overlays specific to bootloaders in combination with project configurations and Kconfig fragments using :ref:`ug_multi_image_variables`.

For example, you can assign the ``my-custom-overlay.conf`` fragment to the |NSIB|, which uses the child name of ``b0``, as follows:

.. code-block::

   west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf5840 zephyr/samples/hello_world -- \
   -DCONFIG_SECURE_BOOT=y \
   -DCONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT=y \
   -Db0_OVERLAY_CONFIG=my-custom-overlay.conf

In the same way, you can replace ``b0`` with ``mcuboot`` to apply the ``my-custom-overlay.conf`` fragment to the MCUboot image.
This is applicable for any child image in the build, as well as any Kconfig option given from the command line.

See :ref:`ug_multi_image_variables` for more information about customizing images further with this method.

.. _ug_bootloader_adding_external_flash:

> External flash memory partitions

Reviewer 4: The title of this section suggests a reference concept section, while in fact it is a task: Using external flash memory partitions. I strongly suggest rephrasing the title.

Reviewer 3: Fixed

********************************

It is possible to use the external flash memory as the storage partition for the secondary slot.
This requires a driver for the external flash memory that supports the following:

* Single-byte read and write.
* Writing data from the internal flash memory to the external flash memory.

See :ref:`pm_external_flash` for general information about how to set up partitions in the external flash memory in the Partition Manager.

.. note::

   External flash memory partitions for image slots are currently only supported by MCUboot.

MCUboot
=======

> To configure MCUboot to use the external flash memory for the secondary slot, update the :file:`ncs/bootloader/mcuboot/boot/zephyr/pm.yml` file to contain the following definition for ``mcuboot_secondary``:

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could be more generic here and inform about editing configuration file for the mcuboot child image in general (adding `ncs/bootloader/mcuboot/boot/zephyr/pm.yml` as an example of such file)?

Reviewer 3: @kyberdin

Author: @MarekPieta Generalized the text and used MCUboot as an example. Please see the latest commit.

   :local:
   :depth: 2

You can add bootloader chains to an application in the following ways:

* Permanently:

  * Using Kconfig fragments.
  * Using ``prj.conf`` files.

* Temporarily, for a single build command, using :ref:`one-time CMake arguments <zephyr:west-building-cmake-args>`.

> Kconfig fragments and ``prj.conf`` files use the same syntax and they are the recommended method.

Reviewer: 'We recommend' at the beginning of the clause rather than 'is the recommended method' at the end, please :)

> Kconfig fragments and ``prj.conf`` files use the same syntax and they are the recommended method.

Reviewer 3: @melwee01 Actually, we never use "we" in the documentation

         -DCONFIG_SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE=\"/home/user/ncs/_keys/priv.pem\"

      Or, if you set an environment variable named ``NCS`` to ``/home/user/ncs``,

      .. code-block:: console

         -DCONFIG_SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE=\"$NCS/_keys/priv.pem\"

> On Unix systems, you can also symbolically link the file into the sample directory, even if git will see it as an untracked file.

Author: I'm thinking that we should just remove this sentence. This suggests that symbolically linking is a valid alternative, but git will see them as an untracked file and pollute the untracked file list with a new "file". If it gets committed by accident and cloned onto a Windows system, the link won't work the same as in Unix.

If users want to symbolically link files within their own fork, that should be their own prerogative but not an official suggestion from NCS.

Thoughts?

Reviewer 3: fixed

.. note::

   The public key string must be an absolute path to the location of the public key file.

>    Environment variables (like ``$HOME``,``$PWD``, or ``$USER``) and the ``~`` character on Unix systems are not expanded when setting an absolute path from a ``prj.conf`` file or Kconfig fragment, but are expanded correctly in key file strings on the command line.

Author: ```suggestion
Environment variables (like ``$HOME``,``$PWD``, or ``$USER``) and the ``~`` character on Unix systems are not expanded when setting an absolute path from a ``prj.conf`` file or Kconfig fragment, but are expanded correctly in key file paths from the command line that are not given as strings.
```

Placing the variables in string arguments to a configuration will not expand them in the command line. For example:

```
west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52840 zephyr/samples/hello_world -- -DOVERLAY_CONFIG=\"$PWD/_keys/mykey.pem\"
```
will not expand `$PWD` but this will:
```
west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52840 zephyr/samples/hello_world -- -DOVERLAY_CONFIG=$PWD/_keys/mykey.pem
```

Reviewer 3: fixed

         -DCONFIG_SB_SIGNING_PUBLIC_KEY=\"/path/to/pub.pem\" \
         -DCONFIG_SB_SIGNING_COMMAND=\"my_command\"

      Escaped quotations avoid malformed-string warnings from Kconfig.

.. note::

>    The public key string must be an absolute path to the location of the public key file.

Author: Why don't we reduce copy-paste and reference the next line as an extension to this one:

```suggestion
   The public key string must be an absolute path to the location of the public key file, as discussed in :ref:`ug_bootloader_adding_immutable_keys` above.
```
The next line would then be removed.

Reviewer: I agree. Reference earlier material (with a link or reference to specific heading/step) instead of repeating.

Reviewer 3: fixed
